Azure Redis Cache AAD OSS Client Library Samples (#28732)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-java: sdk/identity/azure-identity/src/samples/Azure Cache For Redis/Jedis/Azure-AAD-Authentication-With-Jedis.md

## Azure Cache for Redis: Azure AD with Jedis client library

### Table of contents

- [Dependency Requirements](#dependency-requirements-jedis)
- [Authenticate with Azure AD - Hello World](#authenticate-with-azure-ad-hello-world)

> - [Authenticate with Azure AD - Handle Re-Authentication](#authenticate-with-azure-ad-handle-re-authentication)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Authenticate with Azure AD - Handle Reauthentication](#authenticate-with-azure-ad-handle-reauthentication)
```

- [Authenticate with Azure AD - Azure Jedis Wrapper](#authenticate-with-azure-ad-azure-jedis-wrapper)

#### Dependency Requirements Jedis
```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.azure</groupId>
    <artifactId>azure-identity</artifactId>
    <version>1.5.0</version>
</dependency>

<dependency>
    <groupId>redis.clients</groupId>
    <artifactId>jedis</artifactId>
    <version>4.0.1</version>
</dependency>
```

#### Samples Guidance

Familiarity with the [Jedis](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/redis.clients/jedis/latest/index.html) and [Azure Identity for Java](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/developer/java/sdk/identity) client libraries is assumed.

[Authenticate with Azure AD - Hello World](#authenticate-with-azure-ad-hello-world)
This sample is recommended for users getting started to use Azure AD authentication with Azure Cache for Redis.

> [Authenticate with Azure AD - Handle Re-Authentication](#authenticate-with-azure-ad-handle-re-authentication)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Authenticate with Azure AD - Handle Reauthentication](#authenticate-with-azure-ad-handle-reauthentication)
```

> This sample is recommended users looking to build long-running applications and would like to handle re authenticating with Azure AD upon token expiry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This sample is recommended to users looking to build long-running applications that would like to handle reauthenticating with Azure AD upon token expiry.
```

##### Migration benefits

A natural question to ask when considering whether or not to adopt a new version or library is what the benefits of doing so would be. Jedis by itself doesn't support Azure AD authentication with token generation, failure retries, broken connection handling, and cache reauthentication. Using `AzureJedisClient` will improve developer productivity and code maintainability.

##### Client instantiation

In Jedis, you create a `Jedis` object via a public constructor. The constructor accepts the cache host name and port number. It authenticates using the access keys. For example:

```java
import redis.clients.jedis.Jedis;

Jedis jedis = new Jedis("<host name>", <port number>);
jedis.auth("<username>", "<token>");
jedis.set("key", "value");
jedis.close();
```

With `AzureJedisClient`, client instances are created via builders. The builder accepts the:

- Cache host name
- Port number to connect to
- Username set on the cache
- Optional retry options to configure retry
- Token credential object that's used to generate a token

> See the following example of setting up the Azure Jedis client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table compares the capabilities of the Jedis and Azure Jedis clients.
```

| Feature | Jedis | Azure Jedis |
|--|--|--|
| Connect to Redis Cache | Yes |Yes |
| Azure AD Authentication Support | No | Yes|
| Retry Failure | No| Yes |

> | Re Authenticate | No |Yes |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Reauthenticate | No |Yes |
```

| Handle Broken Connection | No |Yes |

> See the following example of setting up the Azure Jedis client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the following example of setting up the Azure Jedis client:
```

    <version>4.0.1</version>
</dependency>
```

#### Samples Guidance

Familiarity with the Jedis and Azure Identity client libraries is assumed. If you're new to the Azure Identity library for Java, see the docs for [Azure Identity](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/developer/java/sdk/identity) and [Jedis](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/redis.clients/jedis/latest/index.html) rather than this guide.

[Authenticate with Azure AD - Hello World](#authenticate-with-azure-ad-hello-world)
This sample is recommended for users getting started to use Azure AD authentication with Azure Cache for Redis.

[Authenticate with Azure AD - Handle Re-Authentication](#authenticate-with-azure-ad-handle-re-authentication)
This sample is recommended users looking to build long-running applications and would like to handle re authenticating with Azure AD upon token expiry.

[Authenticate with Azure AD - Azure Jedis Wrapper](#authenticate-with-azure-ad-azure-jedis-wrapper)
This sample is recommended for users looking to build long-running applications and would like to integrate our recommended wrapper implementation in their application which handles reconnection and re-authentication on user's behalf.

> #### Authenticate with Azure AD Hello World

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Authenticate with Azure AD: Hello World
```

ClientCertificateCredential clientCertificateCredential = new ClientCertificateCredentialBuilder()
        .clientId("YOUR-CLIENT-ID")
        .pfxCertificate("YOUR-CERTIFICATE-PATH", "CERTIFICATE-PASSWORD")
        .tenantId("YOUR-TENANT-ID")
        .build();

// Fetch an Azure AD token to be used for authentication. This token will be used as the password.
String token = clientCertificateCredential
        .getToken(new TokenRequestContext()
                .addScopes("https://*.cacheinfra.windows.net:10225/appid/.default")).block().getToken();

// SSL connection is required for non 6379 ports.
boolean useSsl = true; 
String cacheHostname = "YOUR_HOST_NAME.redis.cache.windows.net";

// Create Jedis client and connect to the Azure Cache for Redis over the TLS/SSL port using the access token as password.
Jedis jedis = new Jedis(cacheHostname, 6380, DefaultJedisClientConfig.builder()
        .password(token)
        .ssl(useSsl)
        .build());

// Set a value against your key in the Redis cache.
jedis.set("Az:key", "testValue");
System.out.println(jedis.get("Az:key"));

// Close the Jedis Client
jedis.close();
```

> #### Authenticate with Azure AD Handle Re Authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Authenticate with Azure AD: Handle Reauthentication
```

try {
    // Set a value against your key in the Redis cache.
    jedis.set("Az:key", "testValue");
    System.out.println(jedis.get("Az:key"));
} catch (JedisException e) {
    // Handle The Exception as required in your application.
    e.printStackTrace();

    // Check if the client is broken, if it is then close and recreate it to create a new healthy connection.
    if (jedis.isBroken() || accessToken.isExpired()) {
        jedis.close();
        jedis = createJedisClient(cacheHostname, 6380,"USERNAME", getAccessToken(clientCertificateCredential, trc), useSsl);
    }
}

// Close the Jedis Client
jedis.close();

// Helper Code
private static Jedis createJedisClient(String cacheHostname, int port, String username, AccessToken accessToken, boolean useSsl) {
    return new Jedis(cacheHostname, port, DefaultJedisClientConfig.builder()
            .password(accessToken.getToken())
            .user(username)
            .ssl(useSsl)
            .build());
}

private static AccessToken getAccessToken(TokenCredential tokenCredential, TokenRequestContext trc) {
    return tokenCredential.getToken(trc).block();
}
```

> #### Authenticate with Azure AD Azure Jedis Wrapper

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Authenticate with Azure AD: Azure Jedis Wrapper
```

##### Migration benefits

A natural question to ask when considering whether or not to adopt a new version or library is what the benefits of doing so would be. Jedis by itself doesn't support Azure AD authentication with token generation, failure retries, broken connection handling, and cache reauthentication. Using `AzureJedisClient` will improve developer productivity and code maintainability.

##### Client instantiation

In Jedis, you create a `Jedis` object via a public constructor. The constructor accepts the cache host name and port number. It authenticates using the access keys. For example:

```java
import redis.clients.jedis.Jedis;

Jedis jedis = new Jedis("<host name>", <port number>);
jedis.auth("<username>", "<token>");
jedis.set("key", "value");
jedis.close();
```

With `AzureJedisClient`, client instances are created via builders. The builder accepts the:

- Cache host name
- Port number to connect to
- Username set on the cache
- Optional retry options to configure retry
- Token credential object that's used to generate a token

See the following example of setting up the Azure Jedis client.

> ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5430778/166531908-3ed78774-3672-4bf8-a6cf-9c6ef6c0bdff.png)

Reviewer: Convert this image to a Markdown table. This makes it easy to update down the road.

> ## Azure Cache For Redis Azure AD With Jedis Client Library

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Azure Cache for Redis: Azure AD with Jedis client library
```

### Table of contents

> - [Jedis Library](#jedis-library)

Reviewer: You can delete this section, since the doc's title already makes it clear the focus is Jedis.

    - [Dependency Requirements](#dependency-requirements-jedis)
    - [Authenticate with Azure AD - Hello World](#authenticate-with-azure-ad-jedis-hello-world)
    - [Authenticate with Azure AD - Handle Re-Authentication](#authenticate-with-azure-ad-handle-re-authentication)
    - [Authenticate with Azure AD - Azure Jedis Wrapper](#authenticate-with-azure-ad-azure-jedis-wrapper)

> ### Jedis Library

Reviewer: Delete heading

#### Dependency Requirements Jedis
```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.azure</groupId>
    <artifactId>azure-identity</artifactId>
    <version>1.5.0</version>
</dependency>

<dependency>
    <groupId>redis.clients</groupId>
    <artifactId>jedis</artifactId>
    <version>4.0.1</version>
</dependency>
```

#### Samples Guidance

[Authenticate with Azure AD - Hello World](#authenticate-with-azure-ad-jedis-hello-world)

> This sample is recommended for users getting started to use Azure AD authentication with Azure Redis Cache.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This sample is recommended for users getting started to use Azure AD authentication with Azure Cache for Redis.
```

[Authenticate with Azure AD - Handle Re-Authentication](#authenticate-with-azure-ad-handle-re-authentication)
This sample is recommended users looking to build long-running applications and would like to handle re authenticating with Azure AD upon token expiry.

[Authenticate with Azure AD - Azure Jedis Wrapper](#authenticate-with-azure-ad-azure-jedis-wrapper)
This sample is recommended for users looking to build long-running applications and would like to integrate our recommended wrapper implementation in their application which handles reconnection and re-authentication on user's behalf.

#### Authenticate with Azure AD Jedis Hello World

> This sample is intended to assist in authenticating with Azure AD via Jedis client library. It focuses on displaying the logic required to fetch an Azure AD Access token and to use it as password when setting up the Jedis instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This sample is intended to assist in authenticating with Azure AD via the Jedis client library. It focuses on displaying the logic required to fetch an Azure AD access token and to use it as password when setting up the Jedis instance.
```

> Familiarity with the Jedis and Azure Identity client libraries is assumed. If you're new to the Azure Identity library for Java, see the docs for [Azure Identity](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/developer/java/sdk/identity) and [Jedis](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/redis.clients/jedis/latest/index.html) rather than this guide.

Reviewer: Instead of repeating this paragraph for each section, move it to the beginning of the doc.

##### Migration Guidance

> When migrating your existing your application code, you need to replace the password input with Azure Active Directory Token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When migrating your existing your application code, you need to replace the password input with the Azure AD token.
```

> Integrate the logic in your application code to fetch an Azure AD Access Token via Identity SDK as shown below and replace it with the password configuring/retrieving logic in your application code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Integrate the logic in your application code to fetch an Azure AD access token via the Azure Identity library as shown below and replace it with the password configuring/retrieving logic in your application code.
```

> **Note:** The below sample uses `ClientCertificateCredential` from our [Azure Identity](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/developer/java/sdk/identity) SDK, the credential can be replaced with any of the other `TokenCredential` implementations offered by our [Azure Identity](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/developer/java/sdk/identity) SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** The below sample uses the [Azure Identity library](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/developer/java/sdk/identity)'s `ClientCertificateCredential`. The credential can be replaced with any of the other `TokenCredential` implementations offered by the Azure Identity library.
```

```java

> //Construct a Token Credential from Identity SDK, e.g. ClientSecretCredential / Client CertificateCredential / ManagedIdentityCredential etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
//Construct a Token Credential from Identity library, e.g. ClientSecretCredential / Client CertificateCredential / ManagedIdentityCredential etc.
```

ClientCertificateCredential clientCertificateCredential = new ClientCertificateCredentialBuilder()
        .clientId("YOUR-CLIENT-ID")
        .pfxCertificate("YOUR-CERTIFICATE-PATH", "CERTIFICATE-PASSWORD")
        .tenantId("YOUR-TENANT-ID")
        .build();

// Fetch an Azure AD token to be used for authentication. This token will be used as the password.
String token = clientCertificateCredential
        .getToken(new TokenRequestContext()
                .addScopes("https://*.cacheinfra.windows.net:10225/appid/.default")).block().getToken();

> 

Reviewer: Remove blank line
```suggestion
```

// SSL connection is required for non 6379 ports.
boolean useSsl = true; 
String cacheHostname = "YOUR_HOST_NAME.redis.cache.windows.net";

// Create Jedis client and connect to the Azure Cache for Redis over the TLS/SSL port using the access token as password.
Jedis jedis = new Jedis(cacheHostname, 6380, DefaultJedisClientConfig.builder()
        .password(token)
        .ssl(useSsl)
        .build());

> // Set a value against your key in the Azure Redis Cache.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Set a value against your key in the Redis cache.
```

jedis.set("Az:key", "testValue");
System.out.println(jedis.get("Az:key"));

// Close the Jedis Client
jedis.close();
```

#### Authenticate with Azure AD Handle Re Authentication

> This sample is intended to assist in authenticating with Azure AD via Jedis client library. It focuses on displaying the logic required to fetch an Azure AD Access token and to use it as password when setting up the Jedis instance. It Further shows how to recreate and authenticate the Jedis instance when its connection is broken in Error/Exception scenarios.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This sample is intended to assist in authenticating with Azure AD via Jedis client library. It focuses on displaying the logic required to fetch an Azure AD access token and to use it as password when setting up the Jedis instance. It Further shows how to recreate and authenticate the Jedis instance when its connection is broken in error/exception scenarios.
```

Familiarity with the Jedis and Azure Identity client libraries is assumed. If you're new to the Azure Identity library for Java, see the docs for [Azure Identity](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/developer/java/sdk/identity) and [Jedis](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/redis.clients/jedis/latest/index.html) rather than this guide.

##### Migration Guidance

> When migrating your existing your application code, you need to replace the password input with Azure Active Directory Token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When migrating your existing application code, replace the password input with the Azure AD token.
```

Integrate the logic in your application code to fetch an Azure AD Access Token via Identity SDK as shown below and replace the password configuring/retrieving logic in your application code.

> **Note:** The below sample uses `ClientCertificateCredential` from our [Azure Identity](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/developer/java/sdk/identity) SDK, the credential can be replaced with any of the other `TokenCredential` implementations offered by our [Azure Identity](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/developer/java/sdk/identity) SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** The below sample uses `ClientCertificateCredential` from the [Azure Identity](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/developer/java/sdk/identity) library. The credential can be replaced with any of the other `TokenCredential` implementations offered by the Azure Identity library.
```
